#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.10
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile
#
aiofiles==22.1.0
    # via argilla
aiohttp==3.9.1
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   elasticsearch8
    #   fsspec
aiosignal==1.3.1
    # via aiohttp
aiosqlite==0.19.0
    # via argilla
alembic==1.9.4
    # via argilla
anyio==4.2.0
    # via
    #   httpcore
    #   jupyter-server
    #   starlette
    #   watchfiles
appnope==0.1.3
    # via ipykernel
argilla[server]==1.21.0
    # via -r requirements.in
argon2-cffi==23.1.0
    # via jupyter-server
argon2-cffi-bindings==21.2.0
    # via argon2-cffi
arrow==1.3.0
    # via isoduration
asttokens==2.4.1
    # via stack-data
async-lru==2.0.4
    # via jupyterlab
async-timeout==4.0.3
    # via aiohttp
attrs==23.2.0
    # via
    #   aiohttp
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
babel==2.14.0
    # via jupyterlab-server
backoff==1.11.1
    # via
    #   argilla
    #   segment-analytics-python
    #   unstructured
bcrypt==4.1.2
    # via passlib
beautifulsoup4==4.12.2
    # via
    #   nbconvert
    #   unstructured
bleach==6.1.0
    # via nbconvert
brotli==1.1.0
    # via brotli-asgi
brotli-asgi==1.2.0
    # via argilla
certifi==2023.11.17
    # via
    #   elastic-transport
    #   httpcore
    #   httpx
    #   opensearch-py
    #   requests
    #   unstructured-client
cffi==1.16.0
    # via
    #   argon2-cffi-bindings
    #   cryptography
chardet==5.2.0
    # via unstructured
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
    # via
    #   requests
    #   unstructured-client
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   nltk
    #   typer
    #   uvicorn
comm==0.2.1
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipywidgets
cryptography==41.0.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   python-jose
dataclasses-json==0.6.3
    # via
    #   unstructured
    #   unstructured-client
datasets==2.16.1
    # via -r requirements.in
debugpy==1.8.0
    # via ipykernel
decorator==5.1.1
    # via ipython
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via nbconvert
deprecated==1.2.14
    # via argilla
dill==0.3.7
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   multiprocess
ecdsa==0.18.0
    # via python-jose
elastic-transport==8.11.0
    # via elasticsearch8
elasticsearch8[async]==8.7.0
    # via argilla
emoji==2.9.0
    # via unstructured
exceptiongroup==1.2.0
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   ipython
executing==2.0.1
    # via stack-data
fastapi==0.108.0
    # via argilla
fastjsonschema==2.19.1
    # via nbformat
filelock==3.13.1
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   torch
    #   transformers
filetype==1.2.0
    # via unstructured
fqdn==1.5.1
    # via jsonschema
frozenlist==1.4.1
    # via
    #   aiohttp
    #   aiosignal
fsspec[http]==2023.10.0
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   torch
greenlet==3.0.3
    # via argilla
h11==0.14.0
    # via
    #   httpcore
    #   uvicorn
httpcore==0.18.0
    # via httpx
httptools==0.6.1
    # via uvicorn
httpx==0.25.0
    # via argilla
huggingface-hub==0.20.2
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   tokenizers
    #   transformers
idna==3.6
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   httpx
    #   jsonschema
    #   requests
    #   unstructured-client
    #   yarl
ipykernel==6.28.0
    # via
    #   jupyter
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyterlab
    #   qtconsole
ipython==8.20.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipywidgets
    #   jupyter-console
ipywidgets==8.1.1
    # via jupyter
isoduration==20.11.0
    # via jsonschema
jedi==0.19.1
    # via ipython
jinja2==3.1.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   nbconvert
    #   torch
joblib==1.3.2
    # via
    #   nltk
    #   scikit-learn
json5==0.9.14
    # via jupyterlab-server
jsonpath-python==1.0.6
    # via unstructured-client
jsonpointer==2.4
    # via jsonschema
jsonschema[format-nongpl]==4.20.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-events
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   nbformat
jsonschema-specifications==2023.12.1
    # via jsonschema
jupyter==1.0.0
    # via -r requirements.in
jupyter-client==8.6.0
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclient
    #   qtconsole
jupyter-console==6.6.3
    # via jupyter
jupyter-core==5.7.1
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
    #   qtconsole
jupyter-events==0.9.0
    # via jupyter-server
jupyter-lsp==2.2.1
    # via jupyterlab
jupyter-server==2.12.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-lsp
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   notebook
    #   notebook-shim
jupyter-server-terminals==0.5.1
    # via jupyter-server
jupyterlab==4.0.10
    # via notebook
jupyterlab-pygments==0.3.0
    # via nbconvert
jupyterlab-server==2.25.2
    # via
    #   jupyterlab
    #   notebook
jupyterlab-widgets==3.0.9
    # via ipywidgets
langdetect==1.0.9
    # via unstructured
lxml==5.1.0
    # via unstructured
mako==1.3.0
    # via alembic
markdown-it-py==3.0.0
    # via rich
markupsafe==2.1.3
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   mako
    #   nbconvert
marshmallow==3.20.1
    # via
    #   dataclasses-json
    #   unstructured-client
matplotlib-inline==0.1.6
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via markdown-it-py
mistune==3.0.2
    # via nbconvert
monotonic==1.6
    # via
    #   argilla
    #   segment-analytics-python
mpmath==1.3.0
    # via sympy
multidict==6.0.4
    # via
    #   aiohttp
    #   yarl
multiprocess==0.70.15
    # via datasets
mypy-extensions==1.0.0
    # via
    #   typing-inspect
    #   unstructured-client
nbclient==0.9.0
    # via nbconvert
nbconvert==7.14.0
    # via
    #   jupyter
    #   jupyter-server
nbformat==5.9.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
nest-asyncio==1.5.8
    # via ipykernel
networkx==3.2.1
    # via torch
nltk==3.8.1
    # via unstructured
notebook==7.0.6
    # via jupyter
notebook-shim==0.2.3
    # via
    #   jupyterlab
    #   notebook
numpy==1.23.5
    # via
    #   argilla
    #   datasets
    #   pandas
    #   pyarrow
    #   scikit-learn
    #   scipy
    #   transformers
    #   unstructured
opensearch-py==2.0.1
    # via argilla
overrides==7.4.0
    # via jupyter-server
packaging==23.2
    # via
    #   argilla
    #   datasets
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   marshmallow
    #   nbconvert
    #   qtconsole
    #   qtpy
    #   transformers
    #   unstructured-client
pandas==1.5.3
    # via
    #   argilla
    #   datasets
pandocfilters==1.5.0
    # via nbconvert
parso==0.8.3
    # via jedi
passlib[bcrypt]==1.7.4
    # via argilla
pexpect==4.9.0
    # via ipython
platformdirs==4.1.0
    # via jupyter-core
prometheus-client==0.19.0
    # via jupyter-server
prompt-toolkit==3.0.43
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   jupyter-console
psutil==5.9.7
    # via
    #   argilla
    #   ipykernel
ptyprocess==0.7.0
    # via
    #   pexpect
    #   terminado
pure-eval==0.2.2
    # via stack-data
pyarrow==14.0.2
    # via datasets
pyarrow-hotfix==0.6
    # via datasets
pyasn1==0.5.1
    # via
    #   python-jose
    #   rsa
pycparser==2.21
    # via cffi
pydantic==1.10.13
    # via
    #   argilla
    #   fastapi
pygments==2.17.2
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   jupyter-console
    #   nbconvert
    #   qtconsole
    #   rich
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via
    #   arrow
    #   jupyter-client
    #   pandas
    #   segment-analytics-python
    #   unstructured-client
python-dotenv==1.0.0
    # via uvicorn
python-iso639==2024.1.2
    # via unstructured
python-jose[cryptography]==3.3.0
    # via argilla
python-json-logger==2.0.7
    # via jupyter-events
python-magic==0.4.27
    # via unstructured
python-multipart==0.0.6
    # via argilla
pytz==2023.3.post1
    # via pandas
pyyaml==6.0.1
    # via
    #   argilla
    #   datasets
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   jupyter-events
    #   transformers
    #   uvicorn
pyzmq==25.1.2
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-server
    #   qtconsole
qtconsole==5.5.1
    # via jupyter
qtpy==2.4.1
    # via qtconsole
rapidfuzz==3.6.1
    # via unstructured
referencing==0.32.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
    #   jupyter-events
regex==2023.12.25
    # via
    #   nltk
    #   transformers
requests==2.31.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   datasets
    #   fsspec
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   opensearch-py
    #   segment-analytics-python
    #   transformers
    #   unstructured
    #   unstructured-client
rfc3339-validator==0.1.4
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-events
rfc3986-validator==0.1.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-events
rich==13.7.0
    # via argilla
rpds-py==0.16.2
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
rsa==4.9
    # via python-jose
safetensors==0.4.1
    # via transformers
scikit-learn==1.3.2
    # via argilla
scipy==1.11.4
    # via scikit-learn
segment-analytics-python==2.2.0
    # via argilla
send2trash==1.8.2
    # via jupyter-server
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   asttokens
    #   bleach
    #   ecdsa
    #   langdetect
    #   python-dateutil
    #   rfc3339-validator
    #   unstructured-client
smart-open==6.4.0
    # via argilla
sniffio==1.3.0
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   httpcore
    #   httpx
soupsieve==2.5
    # via beautifulsoup4
sqlalchemy==2.0.25
    # via
    #   alembic
    #   argilla
stack-data==0.6.3
    # via ipython
starlette==0.32.0.post1
    # via
    #   brotli-asgi
    #   fastapi
sympy==1.12
    # via torch
tabulate==0.9.0
    # via unstructured
terminado==0.18.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyter-server-terminals
threadpoolctl==3.2.0
    # via scikit-learn
tinycss2==1.2.1
    # via nbconvert
tokenizers==0.15.0
    # via transformers
tomli==2.0.1
    # via jupyterlab
torch==2.1.2
    # via -r requirements.in
tornado==6.4
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   notebook
    #   terminado
tqdm==4.66.1
    # via
    #   argilla
    #   datasets
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   nltk
    #   transformers
traitlets==5.14.1
    # via
    #   comm
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
    #   ipywidgets
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-core
    #   jupyter-events
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   matplotlib-inline
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
    #   qtconsole
transformers==4.36.2
    # via -r requirements.in
typer==0.9.0
    # via argilla
types-python-dateutil==2.8.19.20240106
    # via arrow
typing-extensions==4.9.0
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   async-lru
    #   fastapi
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   pydantic
    #   sqlalchemy
    #   torch
    #   typer
    #   typing-inspect
    #   unstructured
    #   unstructured-client
typing-inspect==0.9.0
    # via
    #   dataclasses-json
    #   unstructured-client
unstructured==0.11.8
    # via -r requirements.in
unstructured-client==0.15.2
    # via unstructured
uri-template==1.3.0
    # via jsonschema
urllib3==1.26.18
    # via
    #   elastic-transport
    #   opensearch-py
    #   requests
    #   unstructured-client
uvicorn[standard]==0.20.0
    # via argilla
uvloop==0.19.0
    # via uvicorn
watchfiles==0.21.0
    # via uvicorn
wcwidth==0.2.13
    # via prompt-toolkit
webcolors==1.13
    # via jsonschema
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   bleach
    #   tinycss2
websocket-client==1.7.0
    # via jupyter-server
websockets==12.0
    # via uvicorn
widgetsnbextension==4.0.9
    # via ipywidgets
wrapt==1.14.1
    # via
    #   argilla
    #   deprecated
    #   unstructured
xxhash==3.4.1
    # via datasets
yarl==1.9.4
    # via aiohttp
