#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.10
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile --output-file=requirements/test.txt requirements/base.txt requirements/test.in
#
annotated-types==0.7.0
    # via pydantic
anyio==4.9.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   httpx
autoflake==2.3.1
    # via -r requirements/test.in
backoff==2.2.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
beautifulsoup4==4.13.4
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
black==25.1.0
    # via -r requirements/test.in
certifi==2025.4.26
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   httpcore
    #   httpx
    #   requests
    #   unstructured-client
cffi==1.17.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   cryptography
chardet==5.2.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
charset-normalizer==3.4.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   requests
    #   unstructured-client
click==8.2.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   black
    #   nltk
    #   python-oxmsg
coverage[toml]==7.8.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.in
    #   pytest-cov
cryptography==45.0.4
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   unstructured-client
dataclasses-json==0.6.7
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   unstructured-client
deepdiff==8.5.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   unstructured-client
emoji==2.14.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
exceptiongroup==1.3.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   anyio
    #   pytest
execnet==2.1.1
    # via pytest-xdist
filetype==1.2.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
flake8==7.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.in
    #   flake8-print
flake8-print==5.0.0
    # via -r requirements/test.in
freezegun==1.5.2
    # via -r requirements/test.in
grpcio==1.73.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/./deps/constraints.txt
    #   -r requirements/test.in
h11==0.16.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   httpcore
html5lib==1.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
httpcore==1.0.9
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   httpx
httpx==0.28.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   unstructured-client
idna==3.10
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   anyio
    #   httpx
    #   requests
    #   unstructured-client
iniconfig==2.1.0
    # via pytest
joblib==1.5.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   nltk
jsonpath-python==1.0.6
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   unstructured-client
langdetect==1.0.9
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
liccheck==0.9.2
    # via -r requirements/test.in
lxml==5.4.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
marshmallow==3.26.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   dataclasses-json
    #   unstructured-client
mccabe==0.7.0
    # via flake8
mypy==1.16.0
    # via -r requirements/test.in
mypy-extensions==1.1.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   black
    #   mypy
    #   typing-inspect
    #   unstructured-client
nest-asyncio==1.6.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   unstructured-client
nltk==3.9.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
numpy==2.2.6
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
olefile==0.47
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   python-oxmsg
orderly-set==5.4.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   deepdiff
packaging==25.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   black
    #   marshmallow
    #   pytest
    #   unstructured-client
pathspec==0.12.1
    # via
    #   black
    #   mypy
platformdirs==4.3.8
    # via black
pluggy==1.6.0
    # via pytest
psutil==7.0.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
pycodestyle==2.13.0
    # via
    #   flake8
    #   flake8-print
pycparser==2.22
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   cffi
pydantic==2.11.5
    # via -r requirements/test.in
pydantic-core==2.33.2
    # via pydantic
pyflakes==3.3.2
    # via
    #   autoflake
    #   flake8
pygments==2.19.1
    # via pytest
pypdf==5.6.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   unstructured-client
pytest==8.4.0
    # via
    #   pytest-cov
    #   pytest-mock
    #   pytest-xdist
pytest-cov==6.1.1
    # via -r requirements/test.in
pytest-mock==3.14.1
    # via -r requirements/test.in
pytest-xdist==3.7.0
    # via -r requirements/test.in
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   freezegun
    #   unstructured-client
python-iso639==2025.2.18
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
python-magic==0.4.27
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
python-oxmsg==0.0.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
rapidfuzz==3.13.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
regex==2024.11.6
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   nltk
requests==2.32.4
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   requests-toolbelt
    #   unstructured-client
requests-toolbelt==1.0.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   unstructured-client
ruff==0.11.13
    # via -r requirements/test.in
semantic-version==2.10.0
    # via liccheck
six==1.17.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   html5lib
    #   langdetect
    #   python-dateutil
    #   unstructured-client
sniffio==1.3.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   anyio
soupsieve==2.7
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   beautifulsoup4
toml==0.10.2
    # via liccheck
tomli==2.2.1
    # via
    #   autoflake
    #   black
    #   coverage
    #   mypy
    #   pytest
tqdm==4.67.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   nltk
types-click==7.1.8
    # via -r requirements/test.in
types-markdown==3.8.0.20250415
    # via -r requirements/test.in
types-requests==2.32.4.20250611
    # via -r requirements/test.in
types-tabulate==0.9.0.20241207
    # via -r requirements/test.in
typing-extensions==4.14.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   anyio
    #   beautifulsoup4
    #   black
    #   exceptiongroup
    #   mypy
    #   pydantic
    #   pydantic-core
    #   pypdf
    #   python-oxmsg
    #   typing-inspect
    #   typing-inspection
    #   unstructured-client
typing-inspect==0.9.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   dataclasses-json
    #   unstructured-client
typing-inspection==0.4.1
    # via pydantic
unstructured-client==0.25.9
    # via
    #   -c requirements/./deps/constraints.txt
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
urllib3==2.4.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/./deps/constraints.txt
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   requests
    #   types-requests
    #   unstructured-client
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   html5lib
wrapt==1.17.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
